This lecture will be about Resource Quotas.
When a Kubernetes cluster is used by multiple people or teams, resource management becomes more important.
You want to be able to manage the resources you give to a person or a team.
You don't want one person or one team taking up all the resources.
For instance, CPU and memory of the whole cluster, you can divide your cluster in namespaces,
which is explained in the next lecture and enable resource quotas on it, which I will explain now.
You can do this using the "ResourceQuota" and the "ObjectQuota" objects.
Each container can specify request capacity and capacity limits.
Two different things that you can specify. Request capacity is an explicit request for resources.
This scheduler can use this request capacity to make decisions on where to put the pods on.
You can see it as a minimum amount of resources the pod needs. Resource limits is a limit imposed to the container.
The container will not be able to utilize more resources than specified.
So there's really a limit where capacity is some kind of minimum amount that you put that Kubernetes
can then use to to schedule your pods accordingly.
Also, requires capacity is used by mechanisms like the pod autoscaler, which I explained earlier.
Example of Resource Quotas, you run a deployment with a pod with CPU resource request of 200m.
200m means, 200 millicpu, or also 200 millicores.
I explained this earlier, I just want to refresh this.
It's exactly the same thing as I explained in the auto scaling, the same principles.
So 200m is "Point 2", which is 20% of the CPU core of the running node.
If the node has to cores, it's still 200% of a single core
and you can also put a limit. For instance, you can put a limit on 400 millicpu, you can say I want to have the
capacity of 200 millicpu, maybe you are going to do some scaling based on that, but the container within
this pod can only use a maximum for instance of 400 millicpu. Memory quotas are defined by megabytes or gigabytes.
If a capacity quota, for instance, memory or CPU has been specified by the administrator then each
Pod need to specify capacity quota during creation.
If you as administrator is going to say, "I want what I want capacity quota on my cluster, then every
pod that needs to be scheduled, needs to have this capacity a defined when the pod is created.
The administrator can specify default request values for pods that don't specify any values for capacity.
You probably want to specify those defaults, because otherwise people might just get an error when they
don't specify the capacity quota.
The same is valid for limit quotas.
So like I explained, it is for capacity quotas, but also for limit quotas.
If you set a limit quotas, as an administrator then you better also set the default limits.
If a resource is requested more than the allowed capacity, the server API, Kubernetes is API server will
give an error "403 Forbidden", and "kubectl" will show a error.
The administrator can set the following resource limits within a namespace.
You can set the request CPU.
This means that the sum of CPU requests of our pods cannot exceed this value.
So, if you say if your CPU request is "1 core", then all pods together that are submitted cannot exceed this value.
Same with memory.
If you say "1 gigabyte max", then the sum of these memory requests cannot exceed this value.
Same with the storage.
This is about the volume claims, the volume claims cannot exceed its value.
And then you have the CPU limits and the memory limits. Same the sum of the CPU limits of all the pods cannot exceed this value.
So, people want to start pods on the cluster will have to specify these limits CPU, limit memory,
and the total of these values need to be lower than the total that the administrator is going to set.
The administrator can also set the following object limits.
You can have limits on configmaps, persistent volume claims, pods, replication controllers, resource quotas,
services, the load balancers, the nodeports, and the secrets.
Any limit on those objects you can say for instance,
"I want to have a maximum of 10 pods on a namespace".
"I want to have a maximum of 10 pods within this namespace".
So, if someone tried to submit a 11° one then that person will get an error.
What exactly the namespaces are and how do they work?
I will explain in the next lecture. And then, in the next demo after the lecture, I will show you how to put those limits on a namespace.